README.md, before:

# Vagrant Project with Ansible

This repository contains a simple example of a multi-VM setup using Vagrant and Ansible. The project creates four virtual machines (VMs) via Vagrant, which are provisioned using Ansible. On startup, a base role sets `vim` as the default editor. You can also install Docker Engine on the VMs while they are running using Ansible.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following tools installed before using this project:

- Download and Install [VMware](https://customerconnect.vmware.com/en/downloads/info/slug/desktop_end_user_computing/vmware_workstation_player/17_0) (For Apple silicon) or HyperV
- Download and Install [Vagrant](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/install)
- Install [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/installation_distros.html)

## Usage

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project root.
2. Open a terminal and run the following commands:

``` bash
   cd vagrant
   vagrant up
```

This will set up all the VMs. To set up a specific VM, use:

`vagrant up [vm-name]`

To access a VM via SSH, run:

`vagrant ssh [vm-name]`

Vagrant automatically creates an Ansible inventory file in `.vagrant/provisioners/ansible/inventory/vagrant_ansible_inventory`. This inventory is configured according to the SSH tunnel created by Vagrant.



## Applying Ansible Playbooks

### Set vim as the Default Editor

To apply the `base.yml` playbook, which sets vim as the default editor, run:

``` bash
cd ansible
ansible-playbook playbooks/base.yml
```

### Install Docker Engine on VM

To install Docker Engine on the VMs, run:

``` bash
cd ansible
ansible-playbook playbooks/docker.yml
```

## Troubleshooting

### Known Issues

Occasionally, an error occurs during the booting process. This is an ongoing issue that I am working on fixing. If you encounter this error, try running again the following command:

`vagrant up`

## Useful commands

While on the `vagrant` directort you can run:

- `vagrant global-status`: Check the status of all VMs.
- `vagrant ssh [vm-name]`: SSH into a specific VM.
- `vagrant destroy [vm-name]`: Destroy a specific VM.
- `vagrant destroy -f`: Force destroy all VMs.

Commit message:

updated readme to include changes for nginx

README.md, after:

# Vagrant Project with Ansible

This repository contains a simple example of a multi-VM setup using Vagrant and Ansible. The project creates four virtual machines (VMs) via Vagrant, which are provisioned using Ansible. On startup, a base role sets `vim` as the default editor. You can also install Docker Engine on the VMs while they are running using Ansible.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following tools installed before using this project:

- Download and Install [VMware](https://customerconnect.vmware.com/en/downloads/info/slug/desktop_end_user_computing/vmware_workstation_player/17_0) (For Apple silicon) or HyperV
- Download and Install [Vagrant](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/install)
- Install [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/installation_distros.html)

## Usage

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project root.
2. Open a terminal and run the following commands:

``` bash
   cd vagrant
   vagrant up
```

This will set up all the VMs. To set up a specific VM, use:

`vagrant up [vm-name]`

To access a VM via SSH, run:

`vagrant ssh [vm-name]`

Vagrant automatically creates an Ansible inventory file in `.vagrant/provisioners/ansible/inventory/vagrant_ansible_inventory`. This inventory is configured according to the SSH tunnel created by Vagrant.



## Applying Ansible Playbooks

### Set vim as the Default Editor

To apply the `base.yml` playbook, which sets vim as the default editor, run:

``` bash
cd ansible
ansible-playbook playbooks/base.yml
```

### Install Docker Engine on VM

To install Docker Engine on the VMs, run:

``` bash
cd ansible
ansible-playbook playbooks/docker.yml
```

### Install nginx on VM and deploy a simple HTML page with VM name

To install nginx on the VMs, run:

``` bash
cd ansible
ansible-playbook playbooks/nginx.yml
```

After that, you can access the web pages served by Nginx for each VM. Navigate to the following URLs in your web browser to view the unique messages for each VM:

- **VM1:** [http://localhost:60081/](http://localhost:60081/)
- **VM2:** [http://localhost:60082/](http://localhost:60082/)
- **VM3:** [http://localhost:60083/](http://localhost:60083/)
- **VM4:** [http://localhost:60084/](http://localhost:60084/)

Each page will display a unique message indicating the VM it was served from. For example, you will see a message such as "Welcome from vm1 deployed with Vagrant" for VM1.

## Troubleshooting

### Known Issues

Occasionally, an error occurs during the booting process. This is an ongoing issue that I am working on fixing. If you encounter this error, try running again the following command:

`vagrant up`

## Useful commands

While on the `vagrant` directort you can run:

- `vagrant global-status`: Check the status of all VMs.
- `vagrant ssh [vm-name]`: SSH into a specific VM.
- `vagrant destroy [vm-name]`: Destroy a specific VM.
- `vagrant destroy -f`: Force destroy all VMs.
